Make sure you move your user research to Github before publishing your final story - but this is starting to look pretty good! I would give the content a once-over - make sure to remove mispelling and duplicative text. GOOD

There are some good opportunities here to integrate research. If you're stating facts in your intro, think about including some inline citations that back up your premise. For example, you have references at the bottom but it would be good to include those references for those stats in a way the reader can more easily connect the two. TO BE ADDED

You have a lot of data here, and even more in the text. Think about ways to pull out some of those percentages as separate graphic elements or find other ways to highlight that information to draw attention to it. GOOD

You'll want to be able to quickly summarize these sections, so having those available visually will help your audience. Also be careful about how you present your data in some of these sections. The graphs clearly show a decrease in deaths in some regions (like Asia) over time, but the text tells a different story. You'll need to think about how to frame the discussion - maybe something like "things are improving but we still don't see the decline we should in Africa due to..." or something. TO BE ADDED

In one part of the report you say a correlation proves a relationship because the lines go in the same direction. You can point the correlation out, but you can't prove causation just with these data. You probably need to cite a study or other findings that actually prove that point if you want to use it - does that make sense? TO BE ADDED

You've done a lot of nice work here - I think I'd concentrate on tightening up the story and making sure the data are supporting the narrative - if not, make sure you're telling the story the data are telling you vs. the other way around. The visualizations are nice but don't be tempted to make them all overly complicated either. Your audience will need some help interpreting them - and you might want to focus on just a few that really have the greatest impact along with some key statistics call-outs. You can always have more as backup, but make sure the key ones you highlight are the ones that have the most intuitive impact for your viewers.