Indoor air pollution is one of the largest problems which the current world is facing. When we see bit cities getting constructed and world-wide movements to control outdoor air pollution, plastic pollution and global warming, it's sad to see that minimal effort is made by the governments of the developing countries to curb the indoor air pollution. I term it as insidious because the information about this kind of pollution is not spread to most of the masses, and they eventually become victim to the below diseases (not limited to):

* pneumonia
* stroke
* ischaemic heart disease
* chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and
* lung cancer

The goal of this story is to put forward the current situation of the world and discuss 'what could be done, asap'.



Use of solid fuels for cooking:

The solid fuels, such as coal, charcoal, wood, crop waste and dung are the major components which give rise to indoor air pollution and strike with major diseases mentioned above. The solution to this problem as of now is only one : shift towards modern energy resources.

What's more, the accompanying outline demonstrates that the world is gaining ground toward this path. In 1980 just about 62% of the total populace utilized solid fuels for their cooking. after 30 years this is down to 41%. The graph likewise demonstrates that it is an issue related with poverty: In more economically stable Europe and North America the percentages are much lower. Similarly, for the developed parts of the world, the use of solid fuels is a matter of past and they don't really rely on them

Here is the visualization for the different regions of the world, we can see that Africa and Asia are the most hardly hit regions and they are recovering slowly with respect to the otehr nations.


Access to modern day fuels:

This map shows different part of the world which have access to the clean fuels. The darker regions show greater access to clean fuels and the lighter shades represents the countries which are yet to use the most advanced form of fuel.

As of 2016, we can see that US and most part of the Europe has 100% access to the clean fuels. Meanwhile, countries in Africa, such has Tanzania, Uganda and Somalia have less than 3% of their population access to clean fuels. Most of the Asian countries have less than 50% of their population access to modern day fuels. This strongly suggests that income and GDP of a country might be responsible for the results.



Human lifes claimed by the solid fuels: Deaths in each region:

About 1.5 million people lost their life in 2007 due to indoor air pollution. This is bit better than 1990, where the number was about 2 million.
Other major region includes Oceania, South America and some parts of Europe where death tolls are higher than the otehr areas of the world.

Thh death toll in India and China alone was 700K out of 1.5 million in Asia. That is half of the Asian population.
Isn't that surprising ? World's two most populous nations have the most deaths due to indoor air pollution. This raises serious questions about government's efforts to provide their citizen the access to clean fuels.



Indoor air pollution vs outdoor air pollution:


Let us compare the indoor vs outdoor air pollution death rate.

A horizontal travel towards the left means the region has made progress to reduce the indoor/household air pollution deat rate (per 100K people).
A vertical travel indicates that region has made progress to reduce the outdoor air pollution deat rate(per 100K people).-

We can see that Asia and Africa are improving on the indoor air pollution death rate. They are the most badly struck regions and the improvements signs over three decades look good.
Europe and America have less to no death toll and they are constantly improving on the outdoor pollution death rate.



Relationship between per capita GDP and access to clean fuel:


This correlation is one of the key highlight of this story.

The increasing lines for all the regions show that 'access to clean fuel increases with increase in per capita GDP'

This proves that indoor air pollution is related to poverty.

If we cannot curb poverty, we can curb indoor pollution by spreading information about how it spreads and how to mitigate the risks of household pollution.






User Research:

Person-1: Employee at Environmental Consultants

Their office is next to our cabin and I went ahead and asked for few couple of minutes. As their company is well known for vegetation management consulting, field services, and remote sensing/software consulting services to the utility industry, I felt that he must have a touch with the decision making process in terms of environment when dealing with the projects. I felt he is the best person to discuss and deal with the processes of my project.

a. the target audience you hope to reach with your story:

The class is my target audience. I feel that most of the people here in class have never seen a solid fuel will be moved with the strong statistics presented in the class. The main aim is to identify the causes and face the numbers presented in the presentation, and try to spread awareness among the masses as much as we can. Removing and coping with poverty is difficult but addressing the story is not.

I hope after the presentation, all my colleagues in the class will have idea about the indoor air pollution and will help people to understand and mitigate the risk


b. your approach to identifying representative individuals to interview:

Person-1: Employee at Environmental Consultants

Their office is next to our cabin and I went ahead and asked for few couple of minutes. As their company is well known for vegetation management consulting, field services, and remote sensing/software consulting services to the utility industry, I felt that he must have a touch with the decision making process in terms of environment when dealing with the projects. I felt he is the best person to discuss and deal with the processes of my project.


Person-2: Professor at Indian Institute of Foreign Trade

At IIFT New Delhi, environment is considered as one of the most important factors when they deal with national/international level project. The professor has done a PhD in marketing management and has continuosly travelled to remote places of the world for various projects. As her institute considers projects related to environmental solutions in India and has exposure to most of the poor countries of the world, I believe she can judge my end results far better than anyone else.

Person-3: My colleage at CMU

He is very good at visualizations story lineups. From a student's point of view, I wanted to understand what is making my story weak, hence I chose this person to review my story.



c. your interview script:

Person-1:

Me: Could you provide some of the insights in this story ?
(After explaining the story and showing the visualizations simultenously)

He: The topic is really good and covers most of the aspects. Indoor pollution is truly neglected by world media and the politicians. The overall picture looks good. The one part which concerns me is the number of different regions mentioned in the graphs. It is quite unclear and does not allow me to put focus on one single thing. It would be really good if you could group them together or remove the ones which are not important. COntext is good and I am happy that you are taking up this project

Me: Thanks a lot

Person-2:

Me: Hello Ma'am, could you please provide some feedback on the visualizations and the story ?
(After explaining the story and showing the visualizations simultenously)

She: I liked the visualizations, specially the animations. The time series data is really telling a story and some important facts are being deduced about GDP and access to clean fuel. However, I am not sure about the call to action of this project. You mentioned that call to action is to identify the causes of household pollution and acknowledge it. My question is - then what ? The right call of action should be putting some effort in mitigating the risk which we are witnessing here. Everyone should get a chance in future to make someone aware if there is a case of indoor air pollution.

Me: Sure, I will re-think on this one and will try to improve.

Person-3:

Me: Hey! I just wanted to check with you my new project. Do you have 5 minutes.
(After explaining the story and showing the visualizations simultenously)

He: Everything looks fine, but this particlar map(deaths per country) does not seem to be informative. I mean, deaths in China and India are so high that all the colors for otehr countries are gettign suppressed. So if you simply remove this one and can go on with the area graphs, it would be absolutely fine.

Me: Thanks a lot!


d. the findings from your interviews:

Person 1 figured out data wrangling was needed. There were too many regions mentioned in the data and they were cauing issues in visualization. I did data wrangling in python and removed extra regions. The graphs are much cleaner now.

Person 2 identified that the end goal of this story was not upto the mark

Person 3 identified that one of the maps regarding the deaths due to indoor air pollution is not yielding sufficient information.


e. changes you implemented to your sketches, storyboards and wireframes to address the issues identified:

* Removed the map which was not presenting enough visualizations.
* Re-arranged the story lineup.
* Thought about the end result in a deeper way.
* Re-written the description for few visualizations.
* Completed the data wrangling and came up with fewer regions in the world.